Here, we develop our definition of *convex curves*. Informally, a convex curve is a segment of the boundary of a planar convex body. Although there are many existing definitions of convex curves, this version is tailored to our specific needs.

 > 
 > **Definition \[measure-inverse\].** Let $\beta$ be a measure on some interval $\[a, b\]$. Let $B = \beta(\[a, b\])$. For any $s \in \[0, B\]$, define $G\_\\beta(s)$ as the unique value $t$ such that $\beta(\[a, t)) \leq s \leq \beta(\[a, t\])$. ^def-measure-inverse

* $\beta$ a measure on $\[a, b\]$
* $B = \beta(\[a, b\])$ is the total of $\beta$ 
* Informally, $t$ is the angle of the tangent line and $s$ is the arclength
  * They are bijective when the curve is $C^1$, but not in our case.
* $F\_\\beta(t) = \beta(\[a, t\])$ for $t \in \[a, b\]$
  * $F\_\\beta$ is monotonically increasing and right-continuous.
* ## $G\_\\beta(s) = \inf \left{ t | F\_{\beta}(t) \geq s \right}$

* 

Prefix measure

Other tools: Riemann-Stieltjets

Cap the cumulative sum at maximum X

 > 
 > **Definition \[boundary-measure\].** Let $p_0 = (x_0, y_0), p_1 = (x_1, y_2) \in \mathbb{R}^2$ be two points on a plane. Let $\[a, b\]$ be an interval of $S^1$. A *boundary measure* $\beta$ from $p_0$ to $p_1$ is a measure on $\[a, b\] \subseteq S^1$ such that the following holds. ^def-boundary-measure
 > $$
 > \\int\_{a}^{b} u_t , \beta(dt) = p_1 - p_0
 > $$

 > 
 > **Definition \[convex-curve\].** Let $\beta$ be a measure on an interval $\[a, b\]$ in $S^1$ from point $p_0$ to $p_1$. Let $B = \beta(\[a, b\])$. Define a *convex curve* $\mathbf{x} : \[0, B\] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ with the boundary measure $\beta$ as the following. ^def-convex-curve
 > $$
 > \\mathbf{x}(s) := p_0 + \int\_{\[0, s\]} u\_{G\_{\beta}(s_0)} , ds_0
 > $$

*Proof.* We need to prove the following.
$$
\\mathbf{x}(B) - \mathbf{x}(0) = \int\_{0}^{B} u\_{G\_{\beta}(s)} , ds = p\_{1} - p\_{0}
$$

$$
\\int\_{0}^{B} u\_{G\_{\beta}(s)} , ds = \int\_{a}^{b}u_t,\beta(dt)
$$
□

 > 
 > **Definition \[convex-curve-support-function\].** For any $t \in \[a, b\]$, define $p\_\\beta(t) =\mathbf{x}(F\_\\beta(t)) \times u_t$ ^def-convex-curve-support-function

 > 
 > **Theorem \[convex-curve-area\].** ^thm-convex-curve-area
 > $$
 > I(\mathbf{x}) = \frac{1}{2} \int\_{\[a, b\]} p\_{\beta}(t),\beta(dt) = \frac{1}{2} \int\_{\[a, b\]} \mathbf{x}(F\_\\beta(t)) \times u_t \beta(dt)
 > $$
 > Note that $I(\mathbf{x})$ itself is defined using the parametrization $\mathbf{x}(s)$.

Next: prove that the boundary of any convex body is a convex curve. This is called the 'Gauss-Minkowski Theorem'.

%%
DONE

* What is a convex curve
* What is a signed area I(x) of a curve x
* What is a signed area of a convex curve
* The boundary of a convex body is a convex curve with full angle lengths
* Also, a segment of the boundary of the convex body can be described in other ways as well
  TODOs
* (Jordan Curve Theorem) A closed curve determines a bounded region
* (Green's Theorem) The area of the bounded region is equal to I(x)
* (Mamikon's Theorem) (How do I even state it?)
  %%

%%

# Current situation

1. We need a way to talk about the area functional $I(\mathbf{x})$ on curves $\mathbf{x}$ consistently.
   1. So for example, if $\mathbf{x}$ is a join of two curves $\mathbf{x}\_1$ and $\mathbf{x}\_2$ then $I(\mathbf{x}) = I(\mathbf{x}\_1) + I(\mathbf{x}\_2)$.
   1. Also, we want the calculus of variation of $I(\mathbf{x})$ to be easy to deal with. 
1. Definition of a curve
   1. Usually a curve is parametrized by a *continuous* function.
   1. But if we parametrize a convex curve by its tangential angle, we encounter with bounded yet *non-continuous* values. Imagine a square - the 'parametrization' pops from one vertex to another discontinuously.
   1. There are two ways to resolve.
      1. Develop a new theory of rectifiable yet non-continuous curves
         1. Not using. Reasons:
            1. We can't identify a curve with the image of the parametrization
            1. Also, what is a parametrization of a square then? How long should one stay in a vertex? If more than one moment, the function is not injective! We can't use Jordan curve theorem at all here.
      1. Parametrize a convex curve by its arclength (Selected)
1. How to parametrized a convex curve by its arclength?
   1. Given a 'inverse-curvature' measure, we need to construct a *continuous* parametrization (arc-length).
   1. If smooth, s (arc-length) and t (angle) are one-to-one and calculus is rather easy
      1. Say $\beta(dt) = b(t)dt$. Then $ds=\beta(dt)=b(t)dt$. 
      1. The issue is that $\beta(dt)$ can be zero on an interval or have point mess.
1. Generalized inverse
   1. Generalized inverses of increasign f unctions and Lebesgue decomposition by Arnaud de La Fortelle
      %%
