In short, the previous chapters have shown that a sofa is essentially the intersection of rotated hallways. Instead of fixing the hallway \\(L\\) and moving the sofa \\(S\\) inside \\(L\\), we can fix the sofa \\(S\\) and see the movement in the point of view of \\(S\\) so that \\(L\\) is rotating while containing the sofa \\(S\\). Note also that \\(S\\) has to be contained in the horizontal strip \\(H = \mathbb{R} \times [0, 1]\\) so that it can be moved freely around a straight hallway as well. So the problem of maximizing the area of a sofa is to maximize the area of the intersection of all rotating hallways and the horizontal strip \\(H\\).

The aim of the software `SofaDesigner` is to maximize the hallway intersection of the strip \\(H\\) and a finite number of hallways \\(L_1, L_2, \dots, L_n\\) rotated counterclockwise by a predetermined, finite set of angles \\(\theta_1, \theta_2, \dots, \theta_n\\).

# Hallway Intersection

This section describes what exactly is a hallway intersection. First, an increasing finite list
\\[0 = \theta_0 < \theta_1 < \theta_2 < \cdots < \theta_n = \pi/2\\]
of angles is given as an input. Note that angles of \\(0\\) and \\(\pi/2\\) are already determined. Also, we fix the following notations.
- \\(H = \mathbb{R} \times [0, 1]\\) is the horizontal strip of height 1 with two lines \\(y=0\\) and \\(y=1\\) as boundary.
- \\(L = (-\infty, 1] \times [0, 1] \cup [0, 1] \times (-\infty, 1]\\) is the hallway of width 1.
-

We have hallways
- Representation by \\(\mathbf{x}_i\\)
- Representation by \\(p_i\\)

The set of all hallway intersections is given by the state \\((\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2, \dots, \mathbf{x}_n)\\), and the set of all states that gives a valid hallway intersection forms a *convex polytope* inside . That is, a region described by a finite number of inequalities.
- Describe the exact inequalities required for a finite version

# Aims of `SofaDesigner`

We would like to analyze the region where \\(S\\) is at least the area of Gerver's sofa.

# Combinatorial Arrangement of Hallways

Any intersection or union of polygons are polygons. Moreover, the order of which edges appears in the edges hold importance as well. We denote this as the *combinatorial type* of ...
