> **Definition \[i-cap\].** For any cap \\(K\\), define an almost-everywhere defined function \\(i\_K : J\_\beta \to \mathbb{R}\\) as \\(i\_K(t) = h\_K(t) - 1\\) and \\(i\_K(t + \pi / 2) = g\_K(t) - 1\\) for \\(t \in \[0, \omega\]\\). ^def-i-cap

> **Theorem \[variation-a1\].** Let \\(K\_1\\) and \\(K\_2\\) be two caps with rotation angle \\(\omega\\). Define \\(K= (1-\lambda)K\_1 + \lambda K\_2\\) as the interpolation between \\(K\_1\\) and \\(K\_2\\) with \\(0 \leq \lambda \leq 1\\). Then we have the following calculation. ^thm-variation-a1
> \\\[
> \left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|\_{\lambda = 0} \mathcal{A}\_1(K)
> = \int\_{t \in J\_\omega} (p\_{K\_2} (t) - p\_{K\_1}(t)) (\beta\_{K\_1} (dt) - i\_{K\_1}(t) dt)
> \\\]

*Proof.* From [01. Construction of A\_1#^def-a1](01. Construction of A_1#^def-a1 "wikilink") we have the following.
\\\[
\begin{align\*}
\mathcal{A}\_1(K) = \frac{1}{2} \int\_{J\_\omega} p\_K(t) \beta\_K(dt) - 
\frac{1}{2} \int\_{\[0, \omega\]} \mathbf{x}\_K(t) \times \mathbf{x}'\_K(t) dt
\end{align\*}
\\\]
^eqn-a1

By applying [05. Area#^thm-variation-area](05. Area#^thm-variation-area "wikilink") to the first term and applying [01. Green's Theorem#^thm-variation-curve](01. Green's Theorem#^thm-variation-curve "wikilink") to the second term, we reach the following.
\\\[
\left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|\_{\lambda = 0} \mathcal{A}\_0(K)
= \int\_{t \in \Gamma\_\beta} (p\_{K\_2} (t) - p\_{K\_1}(t)) \beta\_{K\_1} (dt) - 
\int\_0^\beta (\mathbf{x}\_{K\_2} - \mathbf{x}\_{K\_1}) \times \mathbf{x}'\_{K\_1} (dt)
\\\]
Let's focus on the second term more. We write each vector as linear combinations of \\(u\_t\\) and \\(v\_t\\).
This follows from definition of \\(\mathbf{x}\\).
\\\[
\mathbf{x}\_{K\_2} - \mathbf{x}\_{K\_1} = (p\_{K\_2} (t) - p\_{K\_1} (t)) u\_t + 
(p\_{K\_2} (t + \pi / 2) - p\_{K\_1} (t + \pi / 2))) v\_t
\\\]
and this is exactly [this](03. Differential Geometry on Monotone Sofas#^thm-inner-corner-deriv "wikilink").
\\\[
\mathbf{x}'\_{K\_1} = \mathbf{v}\_{K\_1}(t) = -(g\_{K\_1}^+(t) - 1) \cdot u\_t + (h\_{K\_1}^+(t) - 1) \cdot v\_t
\\\]
So the cross-product \\((\mathbf{x}\_{K\_2} - \mathbf{x}\_{K\_1}) \times \mathbf{x}'\_{K\_1}\\) is equal to the following.
\\\[
(h\_K^+(t) - 1) (p\_{K\_2} (t) - p\_{K\_1} (t)) + (g\_K^+(t) - 1) (p\_{K\_2} (t + \pi / 2) - p\_{K\_1} (t + \pi / 2)))
\\\]
Using [\#^def-i-cap](#^def-i-cap "wikilink"), the second integral can be expressed more concisely.
\\\[
\int\_0^\beta (\mathbf{x}\_{K\_2} - \mathbf{x}\_{K\_1}) \times \mathbf{x}'\_{K\_1} dt = 
\int\_{t \in \Gamma\_\beta} (p\_{K\_2} (t) - p\_{K\_1}(t)) i\_{K\_1}(t) dt
\\\]
We get the original equation by plugging this back to the equation [\#^eqn-a1](#^eqn-a1 "wikilink") for \\(\left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|\_{\lambda = 0} \mathcal{A}\_1(K)\\). □

Here is a calculation. Assume \\(\beta\_K(dt) = f\_K(t)dt\\) for \\(f\\) differentiable on the interior of \\(\Gamma\_\beta\\). Then it turns out that \\(g\_K(t)\\) and \\(h\_K(t)\\) are differentiable for \\(t \in (0, \beta)\\). This is a calculation. Note that \\(\beta(du)\\) is zero when \\(u\\) is outside \\(\Gamma\_\beta\\), and it can be possible that \\(\beta(du)\\) has point mass on the values \\(u = \beta, \pi/2\\).
\\\[
\begin{align}
g\_K'(t) & = \left.\frac{d}{dt}\right|\_{t=0} \int\_{t}^{t+\pi/2} \cos \left( u - t \right) \\ \beta(du) \\
& = -f\_K(t) + \int\_t^{t+\pi/2} \sin (u-t)\\ \beta(du) = -f\_K(t) + h\_K(t) 
\end{align}
\\\]
\\\[
\begin{align}
h\_K'(t) & = \left.\frac{d}{dt}\right|\_{t=0} \int\_{t}^{t+\pi/2} \sin \left( u - t \right) \\ \beta(du) \\
& = f\_K\left( t + \pi/2 \right) - \int\_t^{t+\pi/2} \cos (u-t)\\ \beta(du) = f\_K(t + \pi/2) - g\_K(t)
\end{align}
\\\]
By using Definition \[def\_f\], we obtain the following equations for \\(t \in (0, \beta)\\).
\\\[
\begin{gather}
g'\_K(t) = -h\_K(t) + 1 + h\_K(t) = 1 \\
h'\_K(t) = g\_K(t) - 1 - g\_K(t) = -1
\end{gather}
\\\]
The boundary conditions is that we need the ledge heights to be equal to \\(g\_K(0)=1\\) and \\(h(\beta)=1\\). So this gives formula \\(g\_K(t) = 1 + t\\) and \\(h\_K(t) = 1 + (\beta-t)\\). So \\(f\_K(t) = (\beta-t)\\) and \\(f\_K(t+\pi/2) = t\\).
As the height of the sofa has to be equal to 1, we have the following.
\\\[
\int\_{t \in \[0, \beta\] } \cos \left( t \right) \\ \beta\_K (dt) = 1
\\\]
Computation then gives the following.
\\\[
\int\_{t \in \[0, \beta\]} \cos (t) (\beta-t) \\ dt + \beta\_K(\\\beta\\) = 1 - \cos (b) + \beta\_K(\left\\ \beta \right\\) = 1
\\\]
So consequently \\(\beta\_K(\\\beta\\) = \cos(b)\\). By symmetry it is also that \\(\beta\_K(\\\pi/2\\) = \cos(b)\\) as well.

> **Definition \[maximum-presofa-a1\].** For any rotation angle \\(\beta \in \[0, \pi/2\]\\), define the cap \\(K\_1\\) as the cap with boundary measure described by the following boundary measure.
> \\\[
> \begin{gather}
> \beta\_K(\\\beta\\) = \cos(b) \\
> \beta\_K(\\\pi/2\\) = \cos(b) \\
> \beta\_{K}(dt) = f\_{K}(t)dt \\
> f\_K(t) = (\beta-t) \text{ and } f\_K(t+\pi/2) = t \text{ for } t \in (0, \beta)
> \end{gather}
> \\\]

> **Theorem \[maximum-presofa-a0-critical\].** For any cap \\(K'\\) and \\(\lambda \in \[0, 1\]\\), if we let \\(K = (1-\lambda) K\_0 + \lambda K'\\) then \\(\left.\frac{d}{d\lambda}\right| \mathcal{A}\_0(K) = 0\\).

*Proof.* Use the computation above. □

TODO: use the computation to find the area.
