In order to compute the area of the niche of a monotone sofa, we need to invoke a generalized version of Green's theorem to arbitrary rectifiable Jordan curve. We mainly follow the following reference for the definitions and terminologies that we will use.

 > 
 > Main Reference: 
 > Apostol, Tom (1960). *Mathematical Analysis* (1 ed.). Reading, Massachusetts, U.S.A.: Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, INC.

We first clarify what is a rectifiable Jordan curve by citing the main reference.

 > 
 > **Theorem \[rectifiable-iff-bounded-variation\].** (Theorem 8-25) A curve described by a continuous function $\mathbf{x}(t) = (x(t), y(t)) \in \mathbb{R}^2$ defined on $t \in \[a, b\]$ is *rectifiable* if and only if each $x(t)$ and $y(t)$ are of bounded variation. ^thm-rectifiable-iff-bounded-variation

(note that continuity of $\mathbf{x}(t)$ is described by Theorem 8-16)

 > 
 > **Definition \[jordan-curve\].** (Definition 8-16) Let $\mathbf{x} : \[a, b\] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ be a continuous function. If $\mathbf{x}$ is one-to-one on $\[a, b)$ and $\mathbf{x}(a) = \mathbf{x}(b)$, then the image $\Gamma$ of $\mathbf{x}$ is called a *Jordan curve*. We say that $\Gamma$ is *described by* $\mathbf{x}$. ^def-jordan-curve

TODO: defintion of line integral.

 > 
 > **Definition \[signed-area-rectifiable-curve\].** Let $\mathbf{f}(x, y) = (-y, x)$. Define the following for any rectifiable curve $\mathbf{x}(t) = (x(t), y(t)) \in \mathbb{R}^2$. $$I(\mathbf{x}) := \frac{1}{2} \int\_{a}^{b} \mathbf{f} \cdot d \mathbf{x}(t)$$ ^def-signed-area-rectifiable-curve

TODO: expand this informal note. This just is meant to be another notion for $$\mathcal{A}(\mathbf{x}) = \int\_{a}^{b} \mathbf{x}(t) \times \mathbf{x}'(t) dt$$ when $\mathbf{x}$ is absolutely continuous.

 > 
 > **Theorem \[green\].** Let $\mathbf{x}$ be a rectifiable Jordan curve that is positively oriented, then $\mathcal{A}(\mathbf{x})$ is the area of the region enclosed by $\mathbf{x}$. ^thm-green

TODO: expand the sketch of [^thm-green](01.%20Green's%20Theorem.md#thm-green)

 > 
 > **Theorem \[variation-curve\].** Let $\mathbf{x} = (1 - \lambda) \mathbf{x}\_1 + \lambda \mathbf{x}\_2$ be a line segment parametrization from $\mathbf{x}\_1$ to $\mathbf{x}\_2$ where $\mathbf{x}\_1, \mathbf{x}*2 : \[a, b\] \rightarrow \mathbb{R}^2$ are absolutely continuous functions. Then the following holds. $$\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|*{\lambda = 0} \mathcal{A}(\mathbf{x}) = \frac{\mathbf{x}\_2(a) \times \mathbf{x}\_1 (a) - \mathbf{x}\_2(b) \times \mathbf{x}\_1(b)}{2}

* \\int_a^b (\mathbf{x}\_2 - \mathbf{x}\_1) \times d\mathbf{x}\_1 (t)$$ ^thm-variation-curve

*Proof.*  
$$
\\begin{align\*}
\\mathcal{A}(\mathbf{x}) & = \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b \mathbf{x}(t) \times \mathbf{x}'(t) 
= \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}\_1 + \lambda (\mathbf{x}\_2 - \mathbf{x}\_1)) \times (\mathbf{x}'\_1 + \lambda (\mathbf{x}'\_2 - \mathbf{x}'\_1)) \\
& = \frac{1}{2} \lambda \left( \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}\_2 - \mathbf{x}\_1) \times \mathbf{x}'\_1 + \mathbf{x}\_1 \times (\mathbf{x}'\_2 - \mathbf{x}'\_1) dt \right) + \textrm{(const/quad terms of lambda)} \\
\\end{align\*}
$$

Do integration by parts.
$$
\\begin{align\*}
\\int_a^b (\mathbf{x}\_2 - \mathbf{x}\_1) \times \mathbf{x}'\_1 dt & = 
(\mathbf{x}\_2(b) - \mathbf{x}\_1(b)) \times \mathbf{x}\_1 (b) - (\mathbf{x}\_2(a) - \mathbf{x}\_1(a)) \times \mathbf{x}\_1(a)

* \\int_a^b (\mathbf{x}'\_2 - \mathbf{x}'\_1) \times \mathbf{x}\_1 dt \\
  & = \mathbf{x}\_2(b) \times \mathbf{x}\_1 (b) - \mathbf{x}\_2(a) \times \mathbf{x}\_1(a)

* \\int_a^b \mathbf{x}\_1 \times (\mathbf{x}'\_2 - \mathbf{x}'*1) dt
  \\end{align\*}
  $$
  So we have
  $$
  \\begin{align\*}
  \\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|*{\lambda = 0} \mathcal{A}(\mathbf{x}) & = 
  \\frac{1}{2} \left( \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}\_2 - \mathbf{x}\_1) \times \mathbf{x}'\_1 + \mathbf{x}\_1 \times (\mathbf{x}'\_2 - \mathbf{x}'\_1) dt \right) \\
  & = \frac{\mathbf{x}\_2(a) \times \mathbf{x}\_1 (a) - \mathbf{x}\_2(b) \times \mathbf{x}\_1(b)}{2}
* \\int_a^b (\mathbf{x}\_2 - \mathbf{x}\_1) \times \mathbf{x}'\_1 dt
  \\end{align\*}
  $$
  □

TODO: polish the computation above.

%% THE ISOPERIMETRIC INEQUALIT Y FO R CURVE S WITH SELF-INTERSECTIONS BY ANDREW VOGT
